All right.
Welcome back.
Well let's demonstrate some code splitting and how it works in this video.
Now right over here I just created a Creve react up project.
So I just simply ran create react up code splitting.
This is just the default project that we get out of the box.
If I do NPM start you'll see that there's nothing special just nice and simple create react up perfect
to get started with our code splitting.
First of all I'm going to stop this that's clear here and I'm just going to remove everything in here.
Other than the header and ideally we would want to have perhaps three buttons or three places that we
can click to to give us a new page will have a page one component.
We'll have a page to component and then finally a Page 3 component but obviously we have to create these
components first.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to create a new folder call it component's and within here we'll just create the page Ron
javascript file
paste to javascript file and then finally the Page 3 javascript.
Now within these pages we'll just import re-act from re-act which is pretty standard but you know what
let's also grab the logo that we have up here as well.
The re-act logo going to import that as well.
And because we're in the components folder right now and the logo lives in the source folder we have
to do dot dot.
And actually we want the components folder to be inside of the source for that here not outside.
So let's just move that will put it inside of the source folder.
Now within this page it's going to be a save this function.
So we'll call it cost page 1 is going to equal it won't have any props that all receive for now and
within here we could do the return or for just returning a simple component.
I can just leave it the way it is now and say Divx
will give it a class name of app just so we get the same class name that we had before.
And you don't we'll just copy the header as well.
So this page one is going to have the
and will close off the div but also within here we want to have two buttons.
So the first button will have an on click event and for now is just going to be empty.
And let's say that inside of this button I'll have the tag.
It will have the text of paste too.
So when we click on this button and take us to page 2 and we can do the same for page 3.
So let's just go ahead and save that.
The last thing we want to do is if we go to opt out.
Yes well we still have Page 2 and page 3 but ideally we have some sort of routing.
So we're going to display page on page 2 in pastry but not at the same time based on the route we want
to render only page on if we're on page 1 only page 2 if we're on page 2 and only pastry if we're on
page 3.
So let's just create a simple routing logic here we can first start off by creating a state where we
do that by having a constructor.
Remember we have to call super.
So we can use the this keyword and within here will say this dot state
equals the route and the default route.
When this app gets initialized we'll just be bage wrong.
And based on where we click remember in page 1 how we have to Bundes that will have some sort of an
event that if we click on page 2 it's going to take us to page two if we click on page 3.
It's going to take us to page 3.
So let's create an event we'll call it on the route change
and this route change.
Let's fix that spelling is going to have the this start on the road change method that we're going to
create right now in the app.
So let's go ahead and do then we'll say on route change and this Andreae change is going to receive
the parameter route
and I'm using era functions here so we don't have to bind in the constructor.
Otherwise we have to use dot bind on route change.
If we didn't do the error function.
But I like this way I think it looks cleaner.
Now within here we can simply say this dot sat state to have the route he calls to whatever the route
is.
So we can actually just shorthand use this but it's more descriptive so I like I like this method better.
So we know what's going on.
So now we're passing the on route change to the page one component.
All right.
So by that logic we can just copy and paste to page 2 and page 3 again.
The same thing and all we are doing is anytime we click we update the route to whatever route we requested.
Let's go back or let's save that and go to Page Ron page on now is going to receive the on route change
prop and this on route change and I'm using destructuring here.
So I don't have to do props on route change.
I can just say on route change will have a function that gets run and this on route change is going
to send the route page to.
Because we're going to page two when we make that a little bit smaller.
So you can see and again we're going to do the same thing to page 3 this time clicking on page 3.
And then finally we can just add sports default page Ron and I'm going to go ahead and just copy all
of this because our pages are pretty much going to look the same
except for the fact that the names will be different so we'll have Page 3 and for the on click instead
of page 2 and 3 we'll have page on page to page to page Ron we'll save that.
And then same with Page 2 will rename this to page 2 component that has access to page one and page
3.
Her At the very last part is obviously we want to import these components.
So I'm going to say import page one from or is just component components.
Make sure we get that right.
Page Ron.
And then finally copying the rest over here to make sure we match page to is Sri is to page 3.
I wanted to just save this and run NPM start see if we get any errors.
All right.
We have a quite an ugly web page with our components rendering but it looks like it's working.
We have the pages running but we obviously don't want to display all them at the same time we want to
have some sort of routing logic and the default should be page 1 because remember our route is currently
page on.
And this is pretty easy to do.
We no longer need the header because well because the header and also the up are all within these components.
So let's just remove this
and add the logic in here
we're going to say if this state route equals page 1 then we return page you want to hear
Feltz if we have the route as page to
then we can just render page to
and I'm sure there is cleaner ways of doing this right now.
But for this demonstration purposes this will do just fine.
Nice simple routing logic
pastry.
We finally return that right over here.
All right let's give it a go.
Saving it logo is defined by never used because we don't use it on the main page anymore.
Let's save go back.
All right.
Looks like we have everything running.
Let's see if I click page 2 This changes to page 1 pastry changes to page 2.
So we're changing pages right now but this is kind of hard to tell so let's have some success to make
it look better.
And I actually have some CSSA styles already that we can use because while we're now learning CSSA right
now I have a button class.
Nothing too crazy just bored or making a bigger.
And we also have a disabled class so that now we can add a disable class to our buttons see which one
we're actually clicking on.
So let me save that and this time around I'm going to just have a button button that has a class name.
Disabled and it's not going to do anything you'll just have the page one because we're currently on
page one.
We just want the page to and paste button to be active.
And I'm going to save and do the same for all the other ones as well.
Will say Page two because we're on page two is disabled.
And and finally for page 3 We'll have that one disabled as well.
All right let's see if that looks better.
Let's go back.
All right.
So we're on page 1.
You can see how good my CSSA skills are.
This looks very beautiful.
And if we click on page 2 you go to page to go to pastry.
We go to page 3.
Very cool.
All right.
So we did all that work.
That's amazing.
But where is this code splitting.
Well this is the app that we're going to use code splitting on and because right now if I open up the
tab the developer tools and go to network and I just click refresh.
I see that I get the bundled up.
Yes.
Ignore all this other stuff.
This is just actual stuff that comes with my chrome plug ins and also create re-act up.
But the one we're interested interested in is the bundle.
Yes this is where we have our components and you see this is the one that takes the longest time to
load.
Now this bundle of J.S. is just one single file.
And if I click on page 2 nothing happens because all the javascript that we need has already been loaded
in Bondel digests with code splitting now.
We're going to be able to actually load up files each time we click on a page because we haven't loaded
there yet and this way we can make this bundle like just that 354 kilobytes right now a lot smaller.
I know I'm building up the suspense but in the next video we're going to make this have code splitting
and it's quite easy.
So all seen that the Buh-Bye.